.github/CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# How to Contribute

If you're interested in contributing, take a look at the general [contributer's guide](https://github.com/Microsoft/ApplicationInsights-Home/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) first.

## Prerequisites

1.  Java SDK 1.6 or higher
2.  Sign-in to [Microsoft Azure](https://azure.com)

## Getting started

1.  Set JAVA_HOME environment variable to point to the JDK installation directory.
2.  To build run `./gradlew build` on Linux systems or `gradlew.bat build` on Windows systems.

### Using Eclipse IDE

1.  Install gradle from http://www.gradle.org/installation
2.  Add GRADLE_HOME/bin to your PATH environment variable
3.  In build.gradle add line [apply plugin: "eclipse"]
4.  In Eclipse used File->Import Existing Project in a workspace.
5.  Use [gradle build] to build the project from the command line.

### CollectD Plugin - Optional

To build Application Insights CollectD writer plugin, please do the following:

1.  Download CollectD Java API sources and compile them using JDK 1.6.
    The output jar should be named: 'collectd-api.jar'.
    More info on compiling CollectD sources can be found here: https://collectd.org/dev-info.shtml
2.  Create a new directory for CollectD library you just created, and set a new environment variable 'COLLECTD_HOME'
    pointing to that folder.   
3.  Copy the new jar into %COLLECTD_HOME%/lib
4.  Reload Application Insights project. CollectD writer plugin sub-project should now be loaded.
    IDE restart may be required in order to identify the new environment variable.

### Notes

* To create a Java 6 compatible build you need to either have JAVA_HOME point to "Java 6 SDK" path or set JAVA_JRE_6 environment variable to point to [JRE 6 JRE installation directory]
* To enable Windows Performance Counters you need to install the [Visual Studio 2013 C++ Redistributable](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=40784) (or higher)

Commit message:

Update CONTRIBUTING.md (#625)
* Update CONTRIBUTING.md

* minor edits about collectd and vc++ redistributible

.github/CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# How to Contribute

If you're interested in contributing, take a look at the general [contributer's guide](https://github.com/Microsoft/ApplicationInsights-Home/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) first.

## Prerequisites

1.  Java SDK 1.7 or higher
2.  Sign-in to [Microsoft Azure](https://azure.com)

### Windows Naitive DLLs
* To enable Windows Performance Counters you need to install the [Visual Studio 2013 C++ Redistributable](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=40784) (or higher)
* This is skipped automatically on Linux.
* You may skip this part of the build by using the option `-DskipWinNative=true`. Doing so will break support for custom Windows Performance Counters. Do not use this option if you need this functionality.

## Getting started

1.  Set JAVA_HOME environment variable to point to the JDK installation directory.
2.  To build run `gradlew build`.

### Using Eclipse IDE

1.  Install gradle from http://www.gradle.org/installation
2.  Add GRADLE_HOME/bin to your PATH environment variable
3.  In build.gradle add line `apply plugin: 'eclipse'`
4.  In Eclipse used _File -> Import Existing Project_ in a workspace.
5.  Use `gradle build` to build the project from the command line.

### CollectD Plugin - Optional

To build Application Insights CollectD writer plugin, please do the following:

1.  Aquire 'collectd-api.jar' using one of the following methods:
    * Install CollectD 
        * Set an environment variable **COLLECTD_HOME** to the installation directory.
    * Download CollectD Java API sources and compile them using JDK 1.7.
    The output jar should be named: 'collectd-api.jar'.
    More info on compiling CollectD sources can be found here: https://collectd.org/dev-info.shtml
        * Create a new directory for CollectD library you just built, and set a new environment variable **COLLECTD_HOME** pointing to that folder.
        * Copy the new jar into _%COLLECTD_HOME%/lib_.
4.  Reload Application Insights project. CollectD writer plugin sub-project should now be loaded.
    IDE restart may be required in order to identify the new environment variable.

### Notes

* If you are using Java 8+, set JAVA_JRE_7 environment variable to point a Java 7 JRE installation. This will configure the bootstrap classpath to use the Java 7 library jars.
