azure-application-insights-spring-boot-starter/README.md, before:


**Application Insights Spring Boot Starter**

This Starter provides you the minimal and required configuration to use Application Insights in your Spring Boot application.

**Requirements**
Spring Boot 1.5+ or 2.0+

**Quick Start**

*1. Add dependency*
Gradle:
```groovy
compile "com.microsoft.azure:applicationinsights-spring-boot-starter:${version}"
```

Maven:
```xml
<dependency>
  <groupId>com.microsoft.azure</groupId>
  <artifactId>applicationinsights-spring-boot-starter</artifactId>
  <version>${version}</version>
</dependency>
```

*2. Provide Instrumentation Key*

Add property
```
azure.application-insights.instrumentation-key=<key from the Azure Portal>
```
into your `application.properties`

*3. Run your application*

Start your spring boot application as usual and in few minutes you'll start getting events.

**Additional Configuration**

#### Sending custom telemetry
```java
@RestController
public class TelemetryController {

    @Autowired
    private TelemetryClient telemetryClient;

    @RequestMapping("/telemetry")
    public void telemetry() {
        telemetryClient.trackEvent("my event");
    }
}
```


#### Sending logs to the application insight

Follow the instructions from [Spring Boot logging documentation](https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/html/howto-logging.html) to configure custom logback or log4j2 appender.

`logback-spring.xml`:
```xml
<appender name="aiAppender"
  class="com.microsoft.applicationinsights.logback.ApplicationInsightsAppender">
</appender>
<root level="trace">
  <appender-ref ref="aiAppender" />
</root>
```

`log4j2.xml`:
```xml
<Configuration packages="com.microsoft.applicationinsights.log4j.v2">
  <Appenders>
    <ApplicationInsightsAppender name="aiAppender" />
  </Appenders>
  <Loggers>
    <Root level="trace">
      <AppenderRef ref="aiAppender"/>
    </Root>
  </Loggers>
</Configuration>
```

#### Register own telemetry module, processor or initializer by defining it as a bean in the configuration
```java
@SpringBootApplication
public class MyApplication {

    public static void main(String[] args) {
        SpringApplication.run(MyApplication.class, args);
    }

    @Bean
    public TelemetryModule myTelemetryModule() {
        return new MyTelemetryModule();
    }

    @Bean
    public TelemetryInitializer myTelemetryInitializer() {
        return new MyTelemetryInitializer();
    }

    @Bean
    public TelemetryProcessor myTelemetryProcessor() {
        return new MyTelemetryProcessor();
    }

    @Bean
    public ContextInitializer myContextInitializer() {
        return new MyContextInitializer();
    }
}
```


#### Configure more parameters using `application.properties`
```properties
# Instrumentation key from the Azure Portal. Required.
azure.application-insights.instrumentation-key=00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000

# Enable/Disable tracking. Default value: true.
azure.application-insights.enabled=true

# Enable/Disable web modules. Default value: true.
azure.application-insights.web.enabled=true

# Logging type [console, file]. Default value: console.
azure.application-insights.logger.type=console
# Logging level [all, trace, info, warn, error, off]. Default value: error.
azure.application-insights.logger.level=error

# Enable/Disable QuickPulse (Live Metrics). Default value: True
azure.application-insights.quick-pulse.enabled=true

# Enable/Disable developer mode, all telemetry will be sent immediately without batching. Significantly affects performance and should be used only in developer environment. Default value: false.
azure.application-insights.channel.in-process.developer-mode=false
# Endpoint address, Default value: https://dc.services.visualstudio.com/v2/track.
azure.application-insights.channel.in-process.endpoint-address=https://dc.services.visualstudio.com/v2/track
# Maximum count of telemetries that will be batched before sending. Must be between 1 and 1000. Default value: 500.
azure.application-insights.channel.in-process.max-telemetry-buffer-capacity=500
# Interval to send telemetry. Must be between 1 and 300. Default value: 5 seconds.
azure.application-insights.channel.in-process.flush-interval-in-seconds=5
# Size of disk space that Application Insights can use to store telemetry in case of network outage. Must be between 1 and 1000. Default value: 10 megabytes.
azure.application-insights.channel.in-process.max-transmission-storage-files-capacity-in-mb=10
# Enable/Disable throttling on sending telemetry data. Default value: true.
azure.application-insights.channel.in-process.throttling=true

# Percent of telemetry events that will be sent to Application Insights. Percentage must be close to 100/N where N is an integer.
# E.g. 50 (=100/2), 33.33 (=100/3), 25 (=100/4), 20, 1 (=100/100), 0.1 (=100/1000). Default value: 100 (all telemetry events).
azure.application-insights.telemetry-processor.sampling.percentage=100
# If set only telemetry of specified types will be included. Default value: all telemetries are included;
azure.application-insights.telemetry-processor.sampling.include=
# If set telemetry of specified type will be excluded. Default value: none telemetries are excluded.
azure.application-insights.telemetry-processor.sampling.exclude=

# Enable/Disable default telemetry modules. Default value: true.
azure.application-insights.default-modules.ProcessPerformanceCountersModule.enabled=true
azure.application-insights.default-modules.JvmPerformanceCountersModule.enabled=true
azure.application-insights.default-modules.WebRequestTrackingTelemetryModule.enabled=true
azure.application-insights.default-modules.WebSessionTrackingTelemetryModule.enabled=true
azure.application-insights.default-modules.WebUserTrackingTelemetryModule.enabled=true
azure.application-insights.default-modules.WebPerformanceCounterModule.enabled=true
azure.application-insights.default-modules.WebOperationIdTelemetryInitializer.enabled=true
azure.application-insights.default-modules.WebOperationNameTelemetryInitializer.enabled=true
azure.application-insights.default-modules.WebSessionTelemetryInitializer.enabled=true
azure.application-insights.default-modules.WebUserTelemetryInitializer.enabled=true
azure.application-insights.default-modules.WebUserAgentTelemetryInitializer.enabled=true

#Collect JMX Counters
azure.application-insights.jmx.jmx-counters=\
  java.lang:type=ClassLoading/LoadedClassCount/Current Loaded Class Count, \
  java.lang:type=Memory/HeapMemoryUsage.init/Initial Heap Memory Usage/Composite
# where the elements separated by / have the following order:
# 1. objectName 2. AttributeName 3. Display Name and 4. Type  

#Enable/Disable heartbeat module. Default value : true
azure.application-insights.heart-beat.enabled=true
#Default heartbeat interval is 15 minutes. Minimum heartbeat interval can be 30 seconds.
azure.application-insights.heart-beat.heart-beat-interval=900
#If set of properties are specified they would be excluded from Heartbeat payload
azure.application-insights.heart-beat.excluded-heart-beat-properties-list=
#If set of HeartBeat providers are specified they would be excluded
azure.application-insights.heart-beat.excluded-heart-beat-provider-list=
```

### Completely disable Application Insights using `application.properties`
```properties
azure.application-insights.enabled=false
azure.application-insights.web.enabled=false
```
Note: Do not configure `azure.application-insights.instrumentation-key` property for optimal performance
and avoiding any Application Insights beans creation by Spring.


## Migrating from XML based configuration ##
1. Please remove ApplicationInsights.xml file from the project resources or class path.
2. Add applicationinsights-spring-boot-starter-<version_number>.jar file to pom.xml or build.gradle (you do not need to specify applicationinsights-core and web jars independently).
   The starter takes are of it for you.
3. Please configure springboot Application.properties file with Application Insights Instrumentation key. 
4. Compile the project and execute it from your IDE or command line using java -jar applicationjarname
5. To specify AI properties using command line please refer to SpringBoot Documentation.
6. To use [ApplicationInsigts Java agent](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/application-insights/app-insights-java-agent) please follow official documentation 
4. To get an initialized instance of TelemetryClient please use Spring autowired annotation. This will provide a fully initialized instance of TelemetryClient.

```Java
@Autowired
TelemetryClient client;
```

Commit message:

Add lf channel in starter (#739)
* adding autoconfig for localforwarder channel, updating version of starter and sdk, updating changelog

* reverting gradle wrapper properties file

* fix space

* update readme adding gRPC channel config property

* making max buffer capacity and flush interval configurable for LF channel autoconfig, update readme and changelog

* updating readme

* fix readme

* polish

* updating build script to exclude gRPC and protobuf dependencis, removing autoconfig before springboot package

azure-application-insights-spring-boot-starter/README.md, after:


**Application Insights Spring Boot Starter**

This Starter provides you the minimal and required configuration to use Application Insights in your Spring Boot application.

**Requirements**
Spring Boot 1.5+ or 2.0+

**Quick Start**

*1. Add dependency*
Gradle:
```groovy
compile "com.microsoft.azure:applicationinsights-spring-boot-starter:${version}"
```

Maven:
```xml
<dependency>
  <groupId>com.microsoft.azure</groupId>
  <artifactId>applicationinsights-spring-boot-starter</artifactId>
  <version>${version}</version>
</dependency>
```

*2. Provide Instrumentation Key*

Add property
```
azure.application-insights.instrumentation-key=<key from the Azure Portal>
```
into your `application.properties`

*3. Run your application*

Start your spring boot application as usual and in few minutes you'll start getting events.

**Additional Configuration**

#### Sending custom telemetry
```java
@RestController
public class TelemetryController {

    @Autowired
    private TelemetryClient telemetryClient;

    @RequestMapping("/telemetry")
    public void telemetry() {
        telemetryClient.trackEvent("my event");
    }
}
```


#### Sending logs to the application insight

Follow the instructions from [Spring Boot logging documentation](https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/html/howto-logging.html) to configure custom logback or log4j2 appender.

`logback-spring.xml`:
```xml
<appender name="aiAppender"
  class="com.microsoft.applicationinsights.logback.ApplicationInsightsAppender">
</appender>
<root level="trace">
  <appender-ref ref="aiAppender" />
</root>
```

`log4j2.xml`:
```xml
<Configuration packages="com.microsoft.applicationinsights.log4j.v2">
  <Appenders>
    <ApplicationInsightsAppender name="aiAppender" />
  </Appenders>
  <Loggers>
    <Root level="trace">
      <AppenderRef ref="aiAppender"/>
    </Root>
  </Loggers>
</Configuration>
```

#### Register own telemetry module, processor or initializer by defining it as a bean in the configuration
```java
@SpringBootApplication
public class MyApplication {

    public static void main(String[] args) {
        SpringApplication.run(MyApplication.class, args);
    }

    @Bean
    public TelemetryModule myTelemetryModule() {
        return new MyTelemetryModule();
    }

    @Bean
    public TelemetryInitializer myTelemetryInitializer() {
        return new MyTelemetryInitializer();
    }

    @Bean
    public TelemetryProcessor myTelemetryProcessor() {
        return new MyTelemetryProcessor();
    }

    @Bean
    public ContextInitializer myContextInitializer() {
        return new MyContextInitializer();
    }
}
```


#### Configure more parameters using `application.properties`
```properties
# Instrumentation key from the Azure Portal. Required.
azure.application-insights.instrumentation-key=00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000

# Enable/Disable tracking. Default value: true.
azure.application-insights.enabled=true

# Enable/Disable web modules. Default value: true.
azure.application-insights.web.enabled=true

# Logging type [console, file]. Default value: console.
azure.application-insights.logger.type=console
# Logging level [all, trace, info, warn, error, off]. Default value: error.
azure.application-insights.logger.level=error

# Enable/Disable QuickPulse (Live Metrics). Default value: True
azure.application-insights.quick-pulse.enabled=true

# Enable/Disable developer mode, all telemetry will be sent immediately without batching. Significantly affects performance and should be used only in developer environment. Default value: false.
azure.application-insights.channel.in-process.developer-mode=false
# Endpoint address, Default value: https://dc.services.visualstudio.com/v2/track.
azure.application-insights.channel.in-process.endpoint-address=https://dc.services.visualstudio.com/v2/track
# Maximum count of telemetries that will be batched before sending. Must be between 1 and 1000. Default value: 500.
azure.application-insights.channel.in-process.max-telemetry-buffer-capacity=500
# Interval to send telemetry. Must be between 1 and 300. Default value: 5 seconds.
azure.application-insights.channel.in-process.flush-interval-in-seconds=5
# Size of disk space that Application Insights can use to store telemetry in case of network outage. Must be between 1 and 1000. Default value: 10 megabytes.
azure.application-insights.channel.in-process.max-transmission-storage-files-capacity-in-mb=10
# Enable/Disable throttling on sending telemetry data. Default value: true.
azure.application-insights.channel.in-process.throttling=true

#Enable and configure Local Forwarder Telemetry Channel
azure.application-insights.channel.local-forwarder.endpoint-address=
# Interval to send telemetry. Must be between 1 and 300. Default value: 5 seconds.
azure.application-insights.channel.local-forwarder.flush-interval-in-seconds=5
## Maximum count of telemetries that will be batched before sending. Must be between 1 and 1000. Default value: 500.
azure.application-insights.channel.local-forwarder.max-telemetry-buffer-capacity=500


# Percent of telemetry events that will be sent to Application Insights. Percentage must be close to 100/N where N is an integer.
# E.g. 50 (=100/2), 33.33 (=100/3), 25 (=100/4), 20, 1 (=100/100), 0.1 (=100/1000). Default value: 100 (all telemetry events).
azure.application-insights.telemetry-processor.sampling.percentage=100
# If set only telemetry of specified types will be included. Default value: all telemetries are included;
azure.application-insights.telemetry-processor.sampling.include=
# If set telemetry of specified type will be excluded. Default value: none telemetries are excluded.
azure.application-insights.telemetry-processor.sampling.exclude=

# Enable/Disable default telemetry modules. Default value: true.
azure.application-insights.default-modules.ProcessPerformanceCountersModule.enabled=true
azure.application-insights.default-modules.JvmPerformanceCountersModule.enabled=true
azure.application-insights.default-modules.WebRequestTrackingTelemetryModule.enabled=true
azure.application-insights.default-modules.WebSessionTrackingTelemetryModule.enabled=true
azure.application-insights.default-modules.WebUserTrackingTelemetryModule.enabled=true
azure.application-insights.default-modules.WebPerformanceCounterModule.enabled=true
azure.application-insights.default-modules.WebOperationIdTelemetryInitializer.enabled=true
azure.application-insights.default-modules.WebOperationNameTelemetryInitializer.enabled=true
azure.application-insights.default-modules.WebSessionTelemetryInitializer.enabled=true
azure.application-insights.default-modules.WebUserTelemetryInitializer.enabled=true
azure.application-insights.default-modules.WebUserAgentTelemetryInitializer.enabled=true

#Collect JMX Counters
azure.application-insights.jmx.jmx-counters=\
  java.lang:type=ClassLoading/LoadedClassCount/Current Loaded Class Count, \
  java.lang:type=Memory/HeapMemoryUsage.init/Initial Heap Memory Usage/Composite
# where the elements separated by / have the following order:
# 1. objectName 2. AttributeName 3. Display Name and 4. Type  

#Enable/Disable heartbeat module. Default value : true
azure.application-insights.heart-beat.enabled=true
#Default heartbeat interval is 15 minutes. Minimum heartbeat interval can be 30 seconds.
azure.application-insights.heart-beat.heart-beat-interval=900
#If set of properties are specified they would be excluded from Heartbeat payload
azure.application-insights.heart-beat.excluded-heart-beat-properties-list=
#If set of HeartBeat providers are specified they would be excluded
azure.application-insights.heart-beat.excluded-heart-beat-provider-list=
```

### Completely disable Application Insights using `application.properties`
```properties
azure.application-insights.enabled=false
azure.application-insights.web.enabled=false
```
Note: Do not configure `azure.application-insights.instrumentation-key` property for optimal performance
and avoiding any Application Insights beans creation by Spring.


## Migrating from XML based configuration ##
1. Please remove ApplicationInsights.xml file from the project resources or class path.
2. Add applicationinsights-spring-boot-starter-<version_number>.jar file to pom.xml or build.gradle (you do not need to specify applicationinsights-core and web jars independently).
   The starter takes are of it for you.
3. Please configure springboot Application.properties file with Application Insights Instrumentation key. 
4. Compile the project and execute it from your IDE or command line using java -jar applicationjarname
5. To specify AI properties using command line please refer to SpringBoot Documentation.
6. To use [ApplicationInsigts Java agent](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/application-insights/app-insights-java-agent) please follow official documentation 
4. To get an initialized instance of TelemetryClient please use Spring autowired annotation. This will provide a fully initialized instance of TelemetryClient.

```Java
@Autowired
TelemetryClient client;
```
